Previously.
as our deadly game began...
Sam!
..and the players
started dwindling...
Traitor!
Faithful. I'm a Faithful.
..the Traitors murdered again.
But there were tensions
in the Turret.
You threw the grenade into our team.
I don't trust you.
The mission allowed players
to reflect on their game...
"Who is the most arrogant
of them all?"
I did put you.
"Who is the blandest of them all?"
Ellie.
..but also brought great power
for the winning players.
Rachel. Harriet. Matthew.
you will be able to ask the Traitors
two questions.
We're not saying anything.
because we're not giving
the Traitors a heads-up.
Rachel is my number-one suspect.
WHISPERS:I don't know what to ask.
Roxy. do you want my smoky mirror?
I would happily take it.
to be fair. but no.
After a dramatic Round Table...
You are a Traitor.
Fiona. you are up for an Oscar.
You're one of the people that
I feel like I'm closest to in here
and I just feel like maybe
I've kind of got...got it all wrong.
..the Faithful celebrated
their second win.
Fiona. Fiona.
Fiona. I'm sorry.
I am...
..a Traitor!
CHEERING
It was time for Harriet and Matthew
to talk to the Traitors.
But what will become
of one Faithful's request?
I want you to murder Jessie.
And then the next time you seduce.
you can seduce me.
Do we have a deal?
This is The Traitors.
"We have a deal. new recruit."
I wanted to be a Traitor
from the very beginning. so...
..keep my cloak warm.
Obviously. I do not know
what I'm walking into.
They could totally
screw me over here.
But if you can't beat them.
join them.
This is my opportunity
to get into their heads.
to show them
that they have been
dealing with someone
who knows more than they thought...
..and that they are vulnerable
and that they can be taken down.
Traitors...
I may not know who you are.
but I want you to know who I am.
I'm the author of published
psychological thrillers...
..and I'm also a former
criminal barrister.
As we all know. you only now
have a few days
to recruit a new member
following Fiona's banishment.
My question is.
who are you going to recruit.
your three favourite names
for that.
and why are they your choices?
"One. Harriet."
Do you really think I'm not going
to tell the others tomorrow?
Ha!
"Two. Jessie. under the radar."
Nice try.
"And three. Sam.
sacrificial lamb."
Well. he has been
your sacrificial lamb throughout.
I think that this answer
is not worth
the paper on which it's written.
And if my voice is shaking.
it is not through nerves.
It is through anger
that you have taken me
for such a fool.
I don't think this is an exercise
in finding anything out.
What this is
is an exercise to show
that I am onto them.
and that their identities
may not be as secret
as they think they are.
I think we all know that
the gig is up for Rachel.
I am as certain as I possibly can be
that Rachel is in that confessional.
I think tomorrow
that it will be very interesting
to see who acts in Rachel's defence.
as I will have no compunction
in going after her.
And you know what?
You can't murder me tonight.
There is nothing
that you can do to stop me.
So. are you going to continue to
work in a pack to protect Rachel?
That is my question.
That's unnerved me.
I feel really. really uneasy
at the minute.
Like. she said it
with such conviction
that she's coming for me.
This is the strongest attack
on anybody
since this game started.
and I'm nervous that she might
just get me.
"No. Take her."
With great pleasure.
I bet you wished you'd killed me
when you had the chance.
# The end is just beginning... #
With no murder.
13 lucky players remain in the game.
But after last night's meeting
with the Traitors.
the pressure is mounting for Rachel.
We're first! Yay!
So happy we get the best breakfast.
Oh. that's nice.
Oh. that looks scary. doesn't it.
with everyone off now?
Honestly. it is crazy how quickly
the number's going down.
I'm feeling anxious this morning
after last night's antics.
Harriet thinks Rachel
was in the confession box
and Harriet is a loose cannon.
She is by far the biggest threat
to the Traitors at this moment.
Oh. Jesus. man.
I really want to hear
from the people
who spoke to the...
ROXY CHUCKLES
Oh. yes. of course! You're one
of them! Oh. you're one of them!
We'll do it all together.
Oh. yes. of course.
of course. of course. Yeah. OK.
KNOCK ON DOOR
ALL:Come in!
Hello!
CHEERING
Oh. looking sharp. Faz.
If he was any sharper.
he'd cut himself today. Look at him.
LAUGHTER
How does it feel to not be murdered?
I feel like I'm in two camps
this morning.
I'm a Traitor in waiting.
How are you feeling?
Good. yeah. Yeah?
I'm just happy. one more day.
I know. One more mission. Yeah.
I don't really know how to play it.
I feel like I just have to play
right now as a Faithful.
because the Traitors are liars
and they may screw me over.
I'm sure you're all eager.
Yeah. we've not...
We wanted to wait. Wait for them
to come and see what they say.
I personally think it's only fair
that we...
Just have a quick five minutes.
..have a quick word. I'm so sorry.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Oh. come in. Oh. come in.
CHEERING
Morning. Good morning.
Rachel. AKA The Hunter. Rargh!
You look so nice.
Like. the cherries. Thank you.
Oh. sorry.
you're talking about her. yeah.
I was so nervous coming to breakfast
this morning.
I glanced around
and Harriet wasn't there.
That put me at ease a little bit.
because I didn't have to.
you know. act
like I wasn't frightened.
I wore my bracelets today.
I have one from each of my children.
and it says. "I am strong."
"I am loved." and. "I am me."
And I need to remember that today.
because she is a woman on a mission.
Rachel's one of the five.
just for Rachel's benefit.
We want the five of us
to have a quick chat
before we speak to everyone.
OK.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Oh.
Hello! Come in.
Hello!
CHEERING
Harriet! You're looking gorgeous
this morning.
Morning. Good morning. everyone.
Morning. How are we all?
After meeting the Traitors
last night.
it's time to put an end
to their game.
There are going
to be some truth bombs.
Sorry. everyone to interrupt.
but there are a few things
that I want to say... Harriet.
just really. really quickly.
No. If it's about the thing... Yes.
..we decided. collectively.
maybe we should take five before...
No. I'm afraid I'm not acting
as a collective
with anybody any more. Roxy. Oh. OK.
I'm afraid that I'm done with that.
I want to speak about
what happened last night
with my meeting with the Traitors.
I want to start off
by introducing myself properly
to all of you.
I have been acting. as it were.
undercover for the past
couple of weeks.
I am a writer. but I'm actually
a published author
of several psychological thrillers.
THEY GASP
And...
And I was. in a former life.
a criminal barrister.
which might have...
That explains everything!
CHEERING
Oh. my God!
Let's be clear
that. obviously. I kept it quiet
from the very start.
because as soon as I was chosen
as a Faithful.
I would have been walking around
with a great fat target on my back.
Yeah. Yeah. However.
I want to tell you exactly
what I asked the Traitors
last night.
Can I say what happened?
Because everyone's dying to know.
We get to the Garden
and there's five mirrors.
Three of them had smoke.
That would be the ones
that you would be able
to then see the Traitors.
Harriet. Matt and Rachel
got the smoke.
but Claudia said it's up to
the Traitors
if they tell you the truth.
So. my first question to them was
who they were
planning to recruit next.
First they said me.
The second name was Jessie.
they said. because
you're so under the radar.
And the third name. Sam -
you're the sacrificial lamb.
Yeah. So I hope.
if you were offered recruitment.
that you've not taken it.
I wasn't even offered it.
And my second question was this.
And. Rachel. my intention tonight
at Round Table
is to lay out my evidence
for why I think you are a Traitor.
JESSIE GASPS
Oh. my God.
SHE SIGHS
So. the question that I had
for the Traitors was
if they were going to continue
to defend her.
given that it would
look very suspicious.
and the reply that they gave to that
was. "No. take her."
I feel that there was an aspect
of double bluff to that.
that it was meant to make me
second-guess myself.
but I was not going to allow a day
of any further machinating
and web weaving around me.
because I have had enough.
I'm on to you.
You should have killed me
when you had the chance.
Where has this come from?
I'm not going to tell you now.
I'm going to lay my reasons out
tonight. Rachel.
Absolutely shocked.
We were trying to come up with.
what angle do we approach this?
Because obviously there has to be
a benefit for the Faithful.
I'll tell you the benefit.
The benefit... Rachel was speaking.
You've said a lot. Let Rachel speak.
..is to set the cat amongst
the pigeons. Roxy!
Listen. don't speak to me like
that... That is all I have to say.
..because you've said a lot.
and Rachel was just speaking.
so give her a moment. please.
Do you want to respond
or can I add something?
I don't know how to respond to that.
I'll just add my tuppence.
All right? So. I've asked questions.
I've got answers back
that could be true or false.
ELLIE:Are you telling us
what they were? No.
Maybe I've gained some information.
But if I reveal that.
then I just get murdered. Mm-hm.
It's all about finding Traitors
and getting them banished
rather than holding a secret.
surely?
Well. because it could be a lie.
Yeah. I'm with you on that.
So. for instance...
But we've got to try and do it
as a team rather than
not as a team. Yeah.
but then it's muddying the water.
cos what's the benefit
for the Traitors?
Telling lies that come from
the Traitors. potentially.
Yeah. the Traitors are in it
to win it. That's not suspicious.
That's just fair enough.
Can we hear Rachel's questions
and answers?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. please.
Obviously.
I didn't ask myself anything.
but I need to come up
with something.
My hands were shaking a little bit
under the table.
but I don't think anybody saw.
So. basically.
my angle was I'm going to try
and make them feel as uneasy
as they make us feel.
So my first question was...
..describe your game plan
from the first. like. Turret.
So their response was murder
and lie.
So then my next question was.
in what way do you think
that more than one Traitor
can win this game and why?
And they come back and says.
"We don't."
As in divided?
They think only one can.
They don't think... Yeah. yeah.
Only one.
As in it's every man for themselves?
Yeah.
They're going to start
turning on each other soon.
So. Traitor versus Traitor.
Oh!
I feel like the more information
I get. the more confused I get.
Good morning.
Good morning. Morning.
I hope you all had
a restful night
knowing the Traitors
weren't murdering.
And while most of you might have been
talking in your sleep.
as you know.
a few of you talked to the Traitors.
I do hope it provided
a fountain of knowledge.
And on that note.
I'll see you at the mission.
Wet. wet. wet. Fountain.
Hang on. fountain.
Wet. wet. wet.
SAM LAUGHS
Get the flippers out. lads.
BIRD SQUAWKS
Harriet. can we talk?
No. I've got nothing to say to you.
What. she walked away?
I said. "Can we talk?"
"I've got nothing to say to you."
That seems very overdramatic.
Like she's in a court of law.
She is playing a blinder.
What the hell?! My mind is blown.
No wonder my hair's so big.
I mean. you shouldn't
really be surprised.
Anything can happen in this game.
but Harriet being rude to people
doesn't sit right
with me whatsoever.
My mum did teach me well.
Like. you've got to be kind
and you've got to be respectful
and polite.
but also you don't get taken
for a fool.
Do you think the way that she spoke
to me at that table was appropriate?
No. I am not intimidated
and I will not back down.
She's stitching you up
because she's realised
how clever you are to come at Fiona.
I recognised the reaction
at the table with Harriet and Fiona.
and it was like Harriet
was shook and on the back foot.
It's because
that was Traitor versus Traitor.
Harriet comes in
and she goes nuclear.
And. if I'm honest.
I'm kind of pleased
because it's definitely put
the spotlight on her.
I think I was speaking to Harriet
in the confessional last night.
Yeah. they were bricking it.
bricking it.
They wanted to keep it in the group.
But what I don't understand.
what's the secret?
If Matt is a Traitor.
he can't think off the top of
his head the questions
to give answers.
Roxy was at the family tree
with Maz.
which is no longer here. Oh! Roxy...
Sorry. what's the matter?
Just heard my name
being mentioned.
It's just at breakfast this morning.
looked like you was bricking it.
And also the family tree
also with the dots.
you know. you was there with Maz.
Maz and Roxy
were at the family tree.
Harriet. I don't want
to hear anything you've got to say.
And I think the way you spoke to me
at the table was disgusting.
To say that we're actually
quite friends in this game.
that went past the friendship thing
for me.
Adam. I take your point on board
and. to be honest.
I am shaking from what...all what
has just occurred there. Yeah.
I can look you eye to eye.
I am not a Traitor.
Harriet. you offered me the power
to see the Traitors. Yeah.
Why would you do that
unless you were a Traitor yourself?
She is a barrister.
You're telling me
that bit went over her head?
She tried to give me the power
because she's a Traitor.
I am a Faithful.
You decide whatever you wish to do.
Yeah. you deserve a clap
for your speech.
It was very Hugo-esque at the table.
Everything I've done has been
for this team of Faithfuls.
What on earth is she going
to say tonight?
I'm all ears. So am I.
You need to watch at
who is playing a character in here.
Hugo was doing the same.
Barristers. their job is to act
in court. Do they?
Yeah. You can't. like. go in and be.
like. all timid.
You have to be assertive
and dominant and present your case.
I don't know what the ramifications
are going to be
following Harriet's commandeering
of the breakfast table.
She may have been too dramatic.
which is raising
a little bit of suspicion.
It's my job to cause chaos
in the castle.
She has caused the chaos
this morning.
I didn't even get to have my cup
of tea.
I'm going to get a wee drink. guys.
What do you think about
Matt's approach. to not share?
Well. that's what I would do
if I were a Traitor
and I'd been blindsided.
Hi! Oh. sorry.
Do you mind if I get a wee drink?
Is that OK?
No. please do. please do. Thank you.
I'm just having a moment
with my camomile tea.
I think the camomile tea's maybe
a good shout.
I did not envy Rachel this morning.
because Harriet
is a force to be reckoned with.
And. actually. I didn't know
if she had maybe gone home
and then had another epiphany
that I was standing right there
with her. you know?
So although I'm trying
to defend Rachel.
I need to make sure that I'm also
staying in Harriet's good books.
I've got zero sus on Rachel.
Of course.
And this morning in breakfast
when you said.
like. "Look at who isn't going
for Rachel.
"look at who's. like.
protecting her."
like. I'm not protecting her
by saying that.
No. no. don't worry at all. Yeah.
If I can put it this way.
you're not on my list. OK.
With the prize pot currently
sitting at £47.250.
today's mission is a chance
for the players to come together
and add to it further.
CHANTING:Faithful!
Faithful!
What's in store for us today?
Wait. is it red? No. I think
that's just the fountain.
No. no. That's rust.
That is red. That is red.
Hi.
Hi. Hi.
We walked down the glorious manor.
We saw a lovely fountain
full of murky coppery water.
And I thought. "OK. we're going to
get a little bit wet here.
"aren't we?"
Welcome to the Fountain
of the Faithful.
It has seen better days.
Not only is it missing
the key ingredient
to make it a water feature.
it is also missing
eight cherub statues.
Your job is to find them
and place them round the edge
of the fountain.
I'll tell you how you're going
to do that.
There are hundreds of coins
in there.
You're specifically looking
for these -
coins that have cherubs on them.
because on the other side
is the location of where the statues
can be found.
Go in. find these
and bring the statues back to me.
If you bring all eight back.
£10.000 will be added.
You have 30 minutes
in which to do this.
I have to tell you.
it's an all-or-nothing mission.Ay!
So I need all eight statues
placed there
for you to add the £10.000
to the prize pot.
As usual. there is more.Yeah.
At the base of these statues.
you will find a Shield
that will protect you
from tonight's murder.
But they come at a price.
For every Shield you find and use.
I will deduct £1.000
from the prize fund.
What?
What's more important -
the money or your life?
If you find a Shield.
you can wear it proudly.
Or you can tell nobody.
It is your choice.
But if you don't bring
all eight statues back
within the allotted time. no Shields
that have been found will count.
Do you understand?
Yeah. Yeah.
OK. For this. you're going to
need to split into teams.
Please do that now.OK.
So four. Hello. boys. Is that OK?
Yeah. yeah. Hold on. hold on.
There's a five. five and a three.
That's not fair.
I felt that after my explosion
at breakfast.
I was not in a position to be in
a team with Rachel. funnily enough.
And. actually. cold water
could be a corrective to rage.
Yeah. I'll come over.
All right. OK.
Your time starts in three. two. one.
Go!
Here we go.
Oh. it's as warm as toast. Oh. you
cheeky minx! Oh. that is so cold!
OK. Urgh. it's disgusting.
There was £10.000 up for grabs.
but also there were eight Shields.
Every Shield would deduct £1.000
from the group.
So it's that question of. like.
what's more important -
your money or your life?
Got one. got one. got one.
Sam. is that you?
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Got one! I've got one. guys.
Where are you going?
We're off to The Valley.
Over here. over here. over here.
Let's go.
Giant pine tree. That way.
I got one! Yes. Rach.
The Labyrinth.
The Valley's left.
Argh! Whoa!
The question is.
will anyone take a Shield?
And will they declare it?
Put it in. I'll put the coin in.
OK.
We were desperate for a Shield.
It was almost like.
who's going to ask for it first?
Who's getting the Shield?
I would really like it personally.
Take it.
A Shield's more than a grand
in my eyes.
and I didn't want to be murdered.
as simple as that.
You have to look after number one
in this game.
Right. Let's go. Come on.
We need to get back quick.
Up there. up there.
The Shield will be under this.
Put it in.
Let's go. What are we doing?
I think everyone wants a Shield.
Just play out some scenarios.
I have had the least heat.
which they will murder me
because there's no link.
You're quite opinionated. James.
They're going to keep you in.
If you take it now. we leave...
We leave the second one.
and then we're all five protected.
so we're only losing 1.000. Take it.
And what we agreed was
we would take that Shield
and we wouldn't tell the other teams
who got that Shield. which would be
protecting all five of us.
essentially. from murder.
because the Traitors wouldn't know
which of the five of us
has taken the Shield.
For the next statue.
we're leaving that Shield.
That's it. No more Shields now.
We have to put the coin in.
What do we do? I would like one.
I won't say who got it.
Let's just get back
in there. guys.
Oh. well done!
Another statue is coming.
Just get it on and go back in
for now.
PANTING
This is brutal.
I love a good treasure hunt
and I do it all the time
with the kids.
But those cherubs were heavy.
Found one! Where are we going?
The Farmer's Gate.
Farmer's Gate.
Players. ten minutes have gone.
Find the statues!
Got one! Yes! Yes! The Footbridge.
This way!
This way! I've got one.
I've got one!
Oh. right! The Old Cedar Stump.
Girls. after getting Fiona out.
I feel very vulnerable.
What do you think?
Can I take the next Shield?
Of course you can. Go for it. Rach.
All right. Here we go.
All right. All right.
Let's get it moving.
Someone go behind.
I'll go front this time.
Three. two. one. Lift. Good.
We're leaving this Shield. yeah?
Yeah. Yeah. Hoy. hoy. hoy. hoy!
Right. Jack.
You're definitely regarded
as more Faithful than me so far.
Take the Shield. If any of you
are Traitors and mess me up.
I'm going to be pissed.
Are you sure? Take it just now.
We'll get more. Don't worry.
We'll get more.
I feel. actually. after today
that I can trust Stephen.
The fact that he offered me
the Shield first.
it seemed so genuine.
And I feel like I owe him one
for that big time.
You all right on that side. Faraaz?
Yeah.
Right. you're all OK with me
taking it? Yeah.
Put it really careful and hide.
Even though I know I'm not
going to be murdered.
it's like a little mini victory
when you can
steal a Shield from somebody
who actually needs it.
I'm not telling a soul.
Don't sprinkle me.
Oi. why would you say that? Urgh!
It was horrible being
in the fountain.
Oh! No. thank you. No. thank you.
Oi! Hey. careful on the stairs.
Got one. got one. got one!
Yay! Go. go. go.
Riverbank. Down there. Down there.
It's going to be a long walk back.
Woo!
You've got just over
ten minutes. guys.
That's the sixth statue.
There's only one coin left to find.
I've got it. Guys. I've got it!
Come on.
The Ancient Oaks.
Right. Ancient Oak.
OK. OK. OK. pop it in.
I've not had a Shield yet. I would
really love a Shield. Go for it.
I obviously know that I'm not
at risk of murder.
but if I don't get a Shield
for myself.
tonight's murder is going
to be really tricky.
There's a rope.
Are we going for a swim?
Of course we're going to get wet.
Oh. that's a little bit colder!
Oh. my God!
Keep the rope tight. Yeah. Got it.
Keep the rope tight! Argh!
The river was running at
quite a high current.
Argh! You're all right.
we've got you. Take your time.
I was actually quite scared.
Get in there. mate.
Right. Leave that Shield.
We had an agreement that if we took
one Shield. we'd all be protected.
But that's not the case. right?
Because that still gives them
an 80% chance of firing and landing.
Grabbing a Shield will protect me
from murder tonight.
But how am I going to do it subtly?
I'm going this side of the rope.
And we've got this. Jessie. Oh!
LAUGHTER
Harriet. you're in the river!
Argh! Is she all right?
This is mad!
Harriet. are you all right?
Yes!
I grabbed it in that moment
and it felt exhilarating.
It was quite selfish.
I'm not going to lie.
It's self-preservation.
The money is irrelevant
if you're going to be murdered.
We're nearly there. Ready?
Yeah. Right. nice and slow.
Argh! You all right. mate?
We've got you.
Oh. that's the plums cold.
It is so important that we get
this statue back in time -
because if we don't.
we'll lose everything.
All right. come on. We can't
lose this. Come on. guys! Come on!
Come on. guys!
Argh!
Come and help! Come on. Go!
Let's go. let's go!
We took the cherub
off their shoulders and we ran.
Come on!
Right. Whoa!
Come on! Let's go! Quick. quick!
Let's go! Come on!
Go. go. go!
Turn the wheel!
CHEERING
Well done.
That's a thing of beauty.
Congratulations. You restored
all eight cherub statues.
So well done.
You did it in the time.
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE
That means the fountain is flowing.
But it doesn't necessarily mean
the money is.
You could have banked £10.000.
But I can now reveal...
..seven of you took Shields.
What? Seven!
So for today's mission.
you only banked £3.000.
Are you joking?
What?
Claudia said seven Shields
were taken.
which was like. for our team.
was a massive shock cos we thought.
"Let's take one. £1.000 off."
And we assumed that the others
would do the same.
Does anybody want to reveal
if they have a Shield?
It's OK. Nobody has to reveal.
Seven of you might be protected
from murder.
but as you all know by now.
nobody is safe from banishment.
Have a long think about that.
and I will see you at
the Round Table.
Six people took Shields.
We took one out of the seven.
They're lying. How come...?
They're lying.
They must be lying.
We got three. We got two.
How come they only got one?
So they're lying.
It seems to be that somebody
has sneakily taken another Shield.
Somebody's lying - and for a change.
it's not me.
Guys! What? We were just thinking
about the maths
and something doesn't stack up.
as the amount of people
that could have the potential
statues... There was eight statues
and seven Shields gone.
How many statues did you guys get?
Three. Three. We got two.
So we could have had a maximum
of two. And we took three.
They had a maximum of three.
Which means that you guys
had more than one Shield
on your team. then.
No. we've got one Shield.
You don't have one Shield.
We have one Shield.
But that doesn't add up. Unless
someone took it without me seeing.
It's what happened.
It's your team that doesn't add up
with the math.
Honestly... Yeah? ..to MY knowledge.
we took one.
OK. I would bet my house on it.
Flipping heck.
I've just got this bad feeling
that they're going to guess
who has a Shield
and they're going to get me out.
Think about it. Just think about it.
Yeah? Well. as far as I know.
our group took one. I took
the first one. and that was it.
When can you take it?
You can only take it
when you pick it up from the stack.
from the base. Right. OK.
that does narrow it down.
So someone in that group
has taken it without telling
the rest of the group?
Yeah. allegedly.
But how would they do that
without four other people noticing?
Me and you did that. I didn't do it.
We agreed right at the start.
If someone's done that in the group.
I will actually be pissed off.
Yeah. I will be pissed off.
It's not me. It ain't me.
It's not me.
It was only you.
What do you mean it's only me?
Someone in your group is lying
to the rest of the group.
Who was left at the last one?
Oh. mate. have you taken one? Have
you taken one? I went at the back.
So you've taken it?
No. No. I haven't taken the Shield.
Today has been wild.
And it's only going to get worse.
It's going to really kick off now
that someone in their team's lied.
Like. I'm not saying I know
who it is.
but. like. surely you'd know better
than to do that.
I'm actually annoyed. Yeah.
I'm annoyed at whoever's done that
on my team. but I'm annoyed
at myself. Like. I've come in here.
like I've come here to win. And I've
gone. "Why have I thought about
other people?" Yeah. yeah.
I think by my reaction.
it's quite obvious
that I didn't get a Shield.
Yeah. Yeah. yeah.
But now from my perspective. there's
no point talking about it more.
because if there are Traitors
amongst us.
I'm now giving them clues of
who hasn't got a Shield
and who's up for... Who can be
murdered. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly.
Damn. this is... This is crazy.
Sam is saying that
he definitely didn't get a Shield.
However. I can't tell if
he's just lying to cause confusion.
I'm going to go and speak to Adam.
Maybe he's hoping there's a Traitor
in the room with him
when he says that. He could be
trying to catch me out.
I grabbed the Shield to stay
in the game.
but I saw the reaction from
my team-mates and I'm like. "Uh..."
I genuinely feel
a little bit guilty.
but I can say it was
an honest mistake. which it wasn't.
Look. I'm not a very good liar.
It was me. I'm sorry.
Yeah. I knew straight away.
I know that.
You do realise you BLEEPit
for all of us? Yeah.
No. I haven't. You have.
Because if we had one
and we didn't tell anyone else
who took one. then we'd be sweet.
What's the logic with me now going.
"I've got it"?
Mate. it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter now.
It's already done.
If you'd have said.
"Self-preservation"
amongst us at the time. we'd be
like. "All right. Bit annoying.
"We agreed that. But cool."
It still doesn't matter...
It don't change it. then.
No. it does. mate. because...
The way I reacted when someone...
Sorry. Don't try and battle this
because you can't get out of it.
Oh. right. I'm going to get a drink.
What. a strong one or what?
I'm raging at the minute.
because James just did something
so stupid today.
But I don't think he's a Traitor.
When your game is ruined
by someone else's. like. sneakiness
and lack of foresight.
it's just gutting. man.
I'm not saying that.
like. I'm definitely going tonight.
but the options for murder
as a Traitor now are just so clear.
It'll be a saucy one today. like.
At the Round Table?
Yeah. I think more people
are suspicious of
Harriet's behaviour than yours.
But. like. where did it come from?
Your behaviour.
and the way you've asked questions
and you've spoken to people
about any suspicions you've got.
has all been consistent from start
to finish.
Yeah.
And just whatever she says.
she says.
I just have to sit and take it.
Mmm.
So. you think Rachel?
Rachel's the one
that I've got the most on.
but at the moment. what
we're waiting for is Round Table.
and it's going to have to see
if my evidence
is enough to convince the rest
of you.
I don't know. You know.
let the games commence.
I've been. like.
weighing this up in my mind. right?
And. like. correct me
if I'm wrong here.
but surely it'd be
a very ballsy play
if Harriet was the Traitor to come
out and say what she said today.
Like. she is massively. like.
putting herself in the firing line.
whether she's Traitor or Faithful.
I...
It's a huge risk.
I just think. actually.
maybe... I don't know.
Harriet is a Traitor.
Tonight at the Round Table
is my opportunity
to present my evidence
and banish Harriet.
the remaining Traitor.
You can't really hold it against me.
They know that
I don't know who they are.
so I'll just further
solidify my place
as a Faithful before hopefully
I get recruited.
After today's mission.
those who took Shields
sent shock waves
through the castle.
and the feelings of deceit
and intrigue
are only about to escalate.
as it's time for the Round Table.
After Harriet's accusations
at breakfast.
who will the Faithful believe?
I'm going for it tonight.
I'm going to state my case
against Rachel.
She knows that I am onto her.
I might have to be in a position
to fight for my life.
And I don't back away from a fight.
So if Harriet wants to take it
to me. bring it on.
Players. welcome back to
the Round Table.
Today. you added £3.000
to the prize fund.
So the current total is a staggering
£50.250.
We're at the halfway point
and you have caught two Traitors.
So. Faithful.
you caught one last night.
Do you fancy doing it again?
The floor is yours.
All I want to say is. and I will
speak on behalf of our team today.
when we arrived back at the castle.
we thought we had one Shield.
We actually had two.
And that's all I'll say.
OK.
Can I say...? You don't
have to say anything.
Are you sure? I wouldn't say...
No. No. just leave it now.
I think that after what I said
at breakfast this morning.
it's only fair to you all.
and to Rachel. that I actually
lay out the reasons
why I believe
that Rachel is a Traitor.
You look amazing tonight. Rachel.
I'd say dressed to kill.
Erm...
LAUGHTER
Very good. very good.
So my suspicions did start early on.
I think from the moment
that the blindfolds came off.
you were in character...
..and at the time. I bought it.
But you're far too clever.
You know exactly what you're doing.
We move on. then. to the day
of Hugo.
and you said to me.
"You'll put a target on your back.
"Don't do it."
And I laid out my case against Hugo.
and I was really struck by the fact
that you went straight off
into Ross.
We know now that
Ross was a Faithful.
I felt that there was
something wrong.
I felt I'd been played.
With the Ross thing?
Yes.
Then Fiona took me aside.
and she said.
"I think Rachel is a Traitor."
I think that it may be
that Fiona had been set up
to find out from me
whether I was suspicious.
By setting her up for that moment.
you were ensuring that
you could cement your reputation
as a Faithful.
I didn't quite know how to play it
until I knew that I was going to
have an opportunity
to speak to the Traitors.
This opportunity was not about
what the Traitors could say to us
but what I could say to them -
that I am on to you.
Your behaviour only makes sense
if you are a Traitor.
That was a lot.
I know. There's a lot of evidence.
I actually don't think
that's evidence.
I think that's your thoughts.
And I'm sorry that
you don't trust me.
because I genuinely trusted you.
And it's hard to hear. Erm...
I'm sure you did trust me.
cos you know I'm a Faithful.
It's quite simple.
No. I trusted you cos I liked you
and I thought you were
just...my friend in here.
Friendship exists on one level.
The game exists on another.
I know. You don't hate the player.
you hate the game.
I know. Well. I'll play my own game
and make friends along the way.
so I'm OK with that.
In terms of Ross.
I thought Ross was a Traitor.
So. whilst I suspected Hugo.
I suspected Ross.
and I was sticking to my guns.
For the whole Fiona thing.
I didn't start that.
She came in to a group of us
in one room -
"I would like a word."
So you've had your moment
to reveal a secret about you.
so I'm going to reveal
a secret about me.
Oh!
I came here.
I wanted to be a Traitor.
I wasn't selected to be a Traitor.
but I needed a plan B in my pocket
to help me win as a Faithful.
So. for the last few months.
I have been trained
by a former FBI agent
on the beauty of micro-expressions
and people's ability to lie.
I knew there was something good
about you.
And I have profiled
every single one of you.
I know what to look out for.
and if that makes me a bad Faithful.
or distrustful.
I'm really sorry.
but I am trying my hardest
to come in here
and to play a good game.
Who's your read tonight. then.
if it's not putting you on the spot?
Jade. I'm sorry.
but I think it's you.
I think you handle yourself
really. really well.
That. coupled with...
..suspicions from Amanda.
and knowing her background.
puts you...up there with me.
The thing about Amanda is that
I understand it puts me
in a really bad light.
And. like. now that she came out
and she's a detective.
like. there's nothing I can say
to that. other than. like.
I have been my most genuine.
like. authentic self.
Can I pick up on it? Yeah.
Cos. Jade. I came to the table
with your name in mind.
and I trust that Amanda had.
you know. really good skills.
and understanding she's a Faithful
has made me relook at the people
she was most suspicious of.
Amanda got it wrong with me.
I will stand up there
and say I'm a Faithful.
Matt. just quick. Yeah.
At the breakfast table this morning.
erm. what got me was. obviously.
Rachel. you shared.
Harriet. you shared. and you didn't.
And. to me. that confused me.
so I was just wondering
why you have decided to keep your
questions and your answers a secret.
Obviously. this might make
people suspicious.
but this is the decision I've made.
The Traitors can lie.
Yeah. but they already know
the question and the answer.
Yeah. exactly.
But the Faithfuls don't.
The Traitors could have
given me dud information.
I point the finger at someone.
they stand up there.
say they're a Faithful.
and what happens next?
You all look at me.
and I'm gone next.
Do you think it'll incriminate you.
potentially. if you shared it?
They could tell me not the truth.
I could run with it
and it could backfire.
so I want to wait and watch
and see what happens. yeah.
I've kept a meticulous track
of how everyone's voted. OK?
Only three people here
have voted out both Traitors. OK?
They are you.
Stephen
and Harriet.
Last night. you were
not getting involved.
You've now shared this news
that you're this incredible writer.
You write amazing twists.
This is the biggest twist the game
of The Traitors has ever had.
And you didn't want to be involved
in that.
You tried to give it to Roxy.
Now. this is a question.
I want you all to just sit
and think about this.
As a Faithful. if any of you
around this table had the power
to potentially see the Traitors.
would you even consider
giving that away?
I didn't want it right then.
But why not?
As a Faithful. it's all you want.
You've laid a very vague argument
out against Rachel.
I'm not voting for Rachel tonight.
Thing is. what I'm interested in
is a win for the Faithfuls.
If no-one is going to take my word
for it about Rachel now.
you can clear this up
once and for all
by voting me out
and have me stand there.
and then I say that I'm a Faithful.
at which point all of you
will then realise
that what I'm saying
actually has merit.
Put my name down and then
you can find out the truth.
This is the ultimate power move.
I don't think you're a Traitor
at the minute.
so I don't want to vote for you.
No. but it's... Honestly.
it will be... It's a wasted vote.
But it will clarify it. What will
it clarify? I'm not doing it.
It will clarify that. you know.
once it's confirmed that
I'm a Faithful.
it just supports the evidence.
But you haven't got any evidence.
That's what I'm...
I don't understand.
You have a gut feeling.
and your gut feeling
and a lot of your things
was exactly the same as why
I thought it was Ross.
And it will be... The thing is.
though. it'll be different.
though. because I'm convinced
that you will stand up there
and say that you're a Traitor.
which is why I'm prepared to stake
my role in the game for this.
It's as simple as that.
I think you want us
to call your bluff.
This is... Cos you're very clever.
Well. I think that you should...
No. I think you should
call my bluff.
I'm going to call your bluff.
Yeah. no. do.
You've planted a seed.
That means. when you continue
to not get murdered.
you can very easily say.
"Oh. Rachel's keeping me alive."
Because you're a Traitor.
Which will be a verification.
But during the conversation
in the library.
I felt that I was surrounded
by Traitors.
So. you think
every single one of us.
that we were all a team of Traitors?
You think there's. what.
four Traitors?
I'd say that there's four.
and there's every possibility
a fifth has been recruited.
and I don't know who that is.
So. Harriet. if you were voted out
and you are a Faithful...
Yeah. ..you're essentially
telling us to look at
the other people in your team.
Jack. that's what
I'm telling you to do.
Call the bluff. Call her bluff.
Call the bluff.
She's asking us to.
The bluff is Matthew.
The bluff is Roxy.
The bluff is Rachel.
I am absolutely not a bluff.
I am telling the whole truth.
I am not a Traitor.
Has anybody ever heard
Harriet have any suspicions
or say my name as
a potential Traitor before today?
Of course not. I'm not stupid.
I could not show my hand.
But if you think we're the Traitors.
then you're going to ask us anyway.
I don't think you can
talk about questions
when you're not even prepared
to share what you are.
No. that's a deflection.
Why didn't you...?
That is a deflection.
Yes. it is a deflection.
because. as I say. I'm not actually
in the game now to defend myself.
You don't need me any more.
You've got the information you need.
Seriously... Call her bluff.
..just call my bluff
and get on with it.
because I'm not the one bluffing.
Players...
Oh...
..the time for talk is over.
Please. write down the name of
the person you believe is a Traitor.
Harriet. we're going to start
with you.
Who do you believe is a Traitor.
and why?
I mean. it's a shame
I can only name one.
But the number-one choice
for tonight is Rachel.
for reasons I shan't
trouble you with again.
Rachel.
Tonight. I'm going to vote
for Harriet.
Today's behaviour
was just so bizarre.
I don't know if you're a Traitor
that's cracking under the pressure
or just a very passionate Faithful
that's seeking out the truth.
I guess we'll find out.
Jade.
Harriet. I've gone
for yourself today.
I just think your behaviour
this morning
at breakfast was so erratic.
Adam.
I went for Matt. Sorry. mate.
Sure. Yeah.
Faraaz.
So I'd like to think myself
as quite the gentleman.
so. via personal request.
I've voted for you. Harriet. today.
SHE CHUCKLES
Roxy.
I believe Harriet to be a Traitor.
Stephen.
Harriet.
Ellie.
Jade.
I don't want to vote for someone
who I don't believe is a Traitor.
and so I've stuck with you.
Jack.
Harriet. this is absolutely nuts.
But. at your request.
I voted for you.
James.
What a novel way of trying
to leave this game. Harriet.
Sam.Harriet.
I have voted for you tonight.
Matthew.
Harriet. lovely. I'm sorry.
And. for the final vote. Jessie.
Harriet. I picked you.
I really didn't want
to put you on here.
Harriet. you have received
the most votes.
Please. come up here and join me.
Harriet. you have received
the most votes
and you are banished
from the castle.
Please now reveal.
are you a Faithful.
or are you a Traitor?
It's a kamikaze move.
I appreciate that.
But I wanted to ensure
that you all knew who I really was.
It seems to me
that this is the only way
that I can get rid of any doubt
over what I have said.
I've given you the names.
Do not let this sacrifice
be in vain.
I am...
EMOTIONAL:..and have always been...
..a Faithful.
I welcome any questions.
Like. I honestly am a Faithful.
I don't know what happened there.
Let's just pause.
Can we just pause a minute. please?
Faithful. so you've lost
another innocent.
I tell you what -
in that Turret tonight.
the Traitors.
they'll be laughing.
HE EXHALES HEAVILY
Goodnight.
Well. that was surreal.
What a waste of a Round Table.
Let's go and get a drink.
We've just lost another Faithful.
Yeah. we have lost another Faithful.
but I don't know why she did that.
That really. really scared me.
I hadn't a clue
what she was going to throw at me.
Revealing my training
was part of my plan
for further down the line. but
I thought it was time to go home.
I'm definitely. definitely
not out of the woods.
I'll have to use Matty and Roxy
as a Shield for a little bit.
She wanted us to do that.
to point us to the Traitors.
and that's all I'm saying.
It was so self-sacrificial
to put us on the right path.
Guys. I know how that looks.
Obviously.
I've got it wildly wrong.
I genuinely thought
that Harriet was a Traitor.
and I had to bring it up now.
because I didn't think
that Rachel was a Traitor.
HE FLAPS LIPS
How wrong did I get it?
Harriet - she pressed
the self-destruct button.
There's a lot going on
at the minute.
Obviously. I've got this plan
with the Traitors
to kill Jessie tonight.
but no-one knows
if Jessie's shielded or not.
This game. I'm in trouble.
Yeah. yeah.
The Faithfuls are falling
to absolute bits.
Like. I ain't got a Shield tonight.
This game is like a roller-coaster.
I feel like I've been turned upside
down in a snow globe and shook.
And what do you think it means now
about the names that she gave out?
Like. do you think...?
Well. Rachel. Roxy. Matt.
I'm just trying to work out.
cos I...
..feel as if
Roxy has piped up a bit.
I know it's her.
I know it's Matthew.
I don't know which one to go for.
It's one of them two.
You can see it on their faces. man.
I'll just run to the little boys'
room. if that's OK.
I wanted to make sure that.
going back to the Turret tonight.
I could give Rachel
as much information
on what people are thinking.
cos I would imagine
she's feeling quite stressed.
How do you feel?
Because. obviously. you were
with that group yesterday? Hmm.
And she has now cast aspersions
on... On the group.
I just think. like. what she said.
I'm taking with a pinch of salt
cos of how she behaved today.
Yeah. And. obviously.
I'll have a look.
but at the moment. I just don't...
You don't have anything on them.
Yeah. Yeah. yeah.
We're not looking at Rachel.
We're looking at Roxy and Matt.
aren't we?
I don't think
anyone's thinking Rachel.
which is interesting cos Harriet
was kind of most focused in on her.
I don't think anyone
knows what to do with it.
It just doesn't feel like
it's Rachel at the moment.
Harriet came with such
a flimsy case against you.
and I just...
And it was very long.
It was just long. anecdotal.
I didn't know how to respond to that
cos I couldn't remember all the...
Like. the points that she'd made.
And. obviously. I have
a huge target on my back.
I'm just delighted that
there's 12 people and seven Shields.
# You can't run from yourself
# Are you made of body or of soul?
Night. guys. Night. my darling.
If you're not a Traitor.
I wish you the best of luck.
I'm not.
THEY LAUGH
# Waiting for your beast
to lost control...
I'll hopefully see you tomorrow.
The clock has struck midnight.
and the Faithful have returned
to their individual lodgings
with Harriet's last words
ringing in their ears.
Goodnight.
# You can't run from yourself... #
As for Stephen and Rachel.
I'm about to pay them
a little visit.
They have a big decision to make.
# Run from yourself
# You can't run from yourself
# You can't run from yourself. #
Stephen. Well done.
You did so well tonight.
It was like I was afraid to breathe.
I know. I think Harriet
just unravelled today
and no-one was buying
what she was selling.
No. I was doing a bit of a recce
for you tonight.
and I just said.
"Where do we go now?"
And James said.
"Well. it's obvious.
"We look at Matt and Roxy."
OK. So take a breath.
You're safe.
Today. And who knows
what's going to happen tomorrow?
But...
HE LAUGHS
Snap.
THEY LAUGH
So we've taken two
from the Faithfuls. Yeah.
KNOCK AT DOOR
Oh. God.
Come in.
WHISPERED:Oh!
Hi. Traitors.
Hi. Hi.
Now. I've come with news.
I thought you might.
Yes.
So. as you know.
Fiona was banished.
There is now two of you.
As per the rules of the game.
you now have an opportunity
to seduce.
Oh. my God.
So you need to make a choice -
murder as usual
or seduce a Faithful.
If you choose to recruit.
all I ask is that you write the name
down on this anonymous invitation.
I will then deliver it to them.
If they accept. they'll become
a Traitor this evening.
But. of course.
they could refuse the invitation.
I'll leave this here.
I will come back...shortly.
OK. Thank you. Claudia.
Good luck.
HE EXHALES HEAVILY
What's your gut telling you?
We need someone who does have
a little bit of heat on them.
Because they will need to leave
at some point. Mm-hm.
And I think we're maybe thinking
of the same person.
It's... Matty.
Yeah.
He's asking for it.
And he's under so much heat.
But we don't know
how he's going to behave in here.
He could go out there as a Traitor
and just blow everything up. I know.
He's strong. He came with a caseload
against Harriet and he was wrong.
He did. He could gather that
very quickly about either of us
once he knows our identity.
Very quickly.
I think we need to be very careful
how we play this.
So. do we even seduce at all?
If we were to try
and murder tonight.
obviously. I know who got
the Shields in my group. Yeah.
You know that in your group.
you got a Shield and...?
Jade. Which means that
Ellie and Roxy don't have shields.
But we can't murder them
because only you know
who has the Shields.
Yeah.
So we have to go for someone
in the other group
and hope that it's right.
OK.
We had Sam.
James. Adam
and Jessie.
Those are the four left. right?
But we can't go for Sam.
No. He spoke to. I think.
four of us in the kitchen.
and he just. you know. let it slip
that he didn't have a Shield.
Oh. OK.
And I think he might be bluffing.
because then if we go for him
and he does have a Shield.
he'll say. "Ah. I told four people
"that I didn't have a Shield and
now they've tried to go for me." OK.
So he's an absolute no-no.
Who do we think was sneaky that
went back for the second Shield?
It's something James would do.
And I...think. potentially.
Adam as well.
If we were to murder James.
it could look suspicious on Roxy.
adding to the case that's already
building against her.
But also. he's very unpredictable
with his opinions.
With his opinions.
He's going to get it right sooner...
Oh. he will.
I think Adam. at the moment...
Who did he vote for tonight?
Matt.
If we went for Adam...
It implicates Matt. Matt.
It also takes someone out
of the game that I can't read.
One of the things we did
say to Matty last night
was that we would murder
Jessie tonight.
She's probably the most Faithful
in that group.
She'll never be banished.
So my only concern about not going
for Jessie tonight
is that if Matty does have
any suspicion of you whatsoever.
and then he realises
that we're not keeping our word...
He'll turn.
..will he turn?
We need to be really careful
of that.
So. tonight. our choices for murder
are Jessie.
Adam.
and James.
But if Sam doesn't actually
have a Shield.
and let's say the two Shields
are in those three people.
we've only got a 33% chance
of getting it right.
I'll let you do the honours tonight.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
# One with a drumbeat
# Rhythm leading my heart...
I really hope we've done
the right thing.
We'll know tomorrow.
Hi.Oh. hi.
Have you made a decision?
We're going to murder.
Back in your happy place.
We're bloodthirsty.
THEY LAUGH
I will deliver that letter.
Oh. thank you so much.
Thank you very much.
# I rise in the darkness... #
We've made a decision.
It's down to chance.
We'll just roll with
the punches tomorrow.
Let's see what happens.
# All that we see
in our tired eyes. #